## Python Send Help

As part of our new project, we would need to learn how to develop software in MicroPython to control the ESP32 chip that we would eventually have to work with.

Having to migrate from Processing Language (which behaves a lot like C++) to Python is somewhat difficult. This is not so much because the programming logic is different, but rather because the program and function syntax is vastly different. Second nature habits developed after learning C++ (placing semicolons after each line, for instant), typically does not serve any useful purpose in python apart from crashing the program.

In addition, I personally experienced a lot of problems in getting the microbit boards we were issued to cooperate, and had gotten messages about 'the board being busy' and 'the request timing out' at virtually every step of the way. While definitely not the best first impression, I am slowly getting acquainted to the quirks of the board, and working with it should only get easier in the future.

At this stage, perhaps because of familiarity and legacy reasons, I would definitely prefer to use the Arduino board for our project, mostly because I have worked with it previously and also because I am somewhat adept in the C++ language (it was one of our core course modules). Nonetheless, the python language has great potential and can do virtually everything the Arduino can. I take it as a great opportunity to learn a new programming language and hopefully in time I would be able to use it as fluently as I use C.

### Writing in python

The IDE recommended to us for python is called 'Thonny', which is a particularly peculiar name. A quick glance at the software interface after installing reveals a suite of features, such as a plotter and a command terminal. Present also is a feature that displays the current values of the program variables.

Running the python program was a small device called a microbit. Evidently, this is provided to all UK students at the start of their secondary school education. While we would eventually be using an ESP32, the microbit was given to us as a stopgap solution, since the ESP was still on its way to Singapore. The board itself is fairly functional, with a suite of sensors (accelerometer, compass) as well as equipped with wireless communications and a grid of 5 x 5 LEDs, which functions as a display but can also be reverse biased to form a grid of Light Intensity Sensors (LDRs). As a starter project, we were taught to develop a Scissors-Paper-Stone application that uses a Random Number Generator to select one of the 3 available items upon shaking the device. Detection of shaking was implemented via the accelerometer, and we were given the liberty of keying the individual LEDs to produce an 'image' of the desired object. Being able to develop such an application equipped us with most of the fundamentals needed to tackle higher order applications.

#### Notable problem(s)
Over the course of working with Microbit, it was  realized that a 'PROBLEM WITH THONNY BACKEND... TIMEOUT ERROR:' would have a tendency to rear its head every now and then, when new code is uploaded to the board While indeed incredibly annoying when testing code, this error can be cleared by first pressing the reset button on the microbit board, followed by pressing the stop button on the toolbar in the Thonny IDE interface. Usually after doing so, it should be possible to upload the code to the Microbit board, or run commands on the command line. If all else fails, the time tested method of unplugging and replugging in the USB connector usually resolves any issue that may yet arise.


### Alien Invasion
We were asked to code a simple game of 'Space Invaders', which consisted of an alien craft dropping down the 5x5 LED matrix, towards a spaceship. Should the alien craft collide with the spaceship, the game stops displays a 'Game Over' message. Movement of the spacecraft is controlled by the 2 hard buttons on the left and right of the LED Matrix. The alien craft is spawned randomly on the first row (on the top of the matrix) and its propagated in the y direction downwards. Upon reaching the last row of LEDs (y = 4), the alien craft y coordinate is zeroed and the x coordinate re-initialized using the RNG, and the process repeats again. Failure to implement the y coordinate zeroing after y = 4 would cause an illegal value, since there are only 5 LEDs in the y direction. Note that the LEDs are numbered 0 to 4, thus y = 4 would correspond to the 5th LED.

Making reference to the previous program as well as the lecture slides, it was a relatively straight forward process to program the entire Space Invaders game within about 10 to 15 minutes or so. The if criteria that controls the spaceship x position was modified to prevent exceeding a value of 4, or going less than 0. Moving to either extrema of the 5x5 matrix would cause the spaceship to stay there, as opposed to giving an error message (illegal value). Another approach would have been to program the space ship to jumping to the other side of the matrix. This could be a achieved by zeroing the x coordinate after it reaches 4.

It ultimately took a few tries to get the program working satisfactorily, but this was no issue since we had the microbit board on hand and uploading code to it was a quick process. The relevant code will be attached as well for reference.

### Recommended Videos For Thonny IDE

[Introducing Thonny by Aivar Annamaa](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nwIgxrXP-X4) provides a great starting point for Thonny after it has been installed. The video is made by the creator of Thonny himself, and Aivar briefly explains the unique features of Thonny and how it helps his students at his University. It is a short 5 minute video that concisely summarizes the key features of the IDE and provides a great deal of starting information without needing too much time. The code snippets used in the video are easily followable and the viewer is advised to try running them as well. Audio quality in the video, while not the best, is still acceptable and with a little help from the replay button, the video should be comprehensible.

[Thonny - a Python IDE for beginners by Mike Zamansky](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lWaCl0WjNZI) is another great introduction video to the Thonny IDE. Audio quality is much better and a nice feature is that the viewer can see the keystrokes as the video progresses, making it much easier to follow along. Mike goes through most, if not all of the features that Aivar does in the first video, including installing the software on Linux, although the latter may not be relevant if one is usig Windows. The video is about twice as long, at 11 minutes of playback time, but is comprehensive and provides all of the information needed to use the features of the IDE.

Moving away from Thonny, [Python Programming by Derek Banas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N4mEzFDjqtA) provides a very concise video on getting started with the python programming language. It covers basic mathematical operations, as well as operations like printing text to the console, and slightly more advanced concepts in python like classes, as well as working with strings. The examples provided are robust and allow the viewer to follow along while getting the syntax correct. Most impressively, all this is covered within a span of 43 minutes, especially great for the author who doesn't like to sit still.
